---
layout: post
title:  "Advanced Runtime Configuration"
color: blue
width:   6
height:  1
date:   2016-06-24 13:45:49 +0200
categories: main
---


Some default values can be altered at runtime using environment variables or local configuration options.  This is a list of those values.

## General

* `NINJA_FILL_DEM_NO_DATA`: Attempt to fill no data values without checking with the user.  This *will* overwrite your input DEM.
* `CPL_DEBUG`: Turn on additional output useful for debugging. For example, `CPL_DEBUG = NINJAFOAM` will turn on messages related to the conservation of mass and momentum solver.

## Conservation of Mass and Momentum Solver

* `NINJAFOAM_ITERATIONS`: Specify the number of solver iterations.
* `NINJAFOAM_MESH_COUNT`: Specify the mesh count.
* `WRITE_FOAM_FILES`: Exit normally at various stages of a simulation. Useful for debugging. 0 = generate the STL surface and write the OpenFOAM case files; 1 = write the mesh dict files, but do not generate the mesh; 2 = generate the mesh.

## Point Initialization

* `NINJA_POINT_MATCH_OUT_RELAX`: Adjust the outer loop relaxation for a point initialization run.
* `NINJA_POINT_MAX_MATCH_ITERS`: Maximum outer 'loops' to try to solve a point initialization.
* `NINJA_POINT_INV_DIST_WEIGHT`: Inverse distance weighting used for point initialization, 1.0 -> inverse distance, 2.0 -> inversed distance squared, etc.

## Landfire client

* `LCP_DOWNLOAD_WAIT`: Time in seconds between attempts to contact the landfire server.
* `LCP_DOWNLOAD_TRIES`: The number of times to try downloading the lcp from landfire before quitting.  Note that `LCP_DOWNLOAD_WAIT` * `LCP_DOWNLOAD_TRIES` = total timeout for lcp.
* `LCP_KEEP_ARCHIVE`: don't delete the downloaded lcp zip archive if it's set to `ON`.

## Weather Model initialization

### NCAR THREDDS Client

* `NINJA_WX_KEEP_FORECAST`: don't delete the downloaded forecast file if it's set to `ON` (only for thredds/ncar models).
* `NINJA_DISABLE_THREDDS_UPDATE`: don't try to download thredds update file on start up if it's set to `ON`.  Note that this is completely disabled if `DISABLE_THREDDS_UPDATE` is set to `ON` in cmake.

### NOMADS Client

See the [NOMADS documentation](https://github.com/firelab/windninja/blob/master/doc/nomads.md) for options.

