---
layout: post
title:  "Building WindNinja on Windows using MSVC and gistinternals.com"
color: blue
width:   6 
height:  1
date:   2016-06-19 12:45:49 +0200
categories: main
---


gisinternals.com builds gdal and most of the dependencies needed for WindNinja.  It is simpler than building everything from source, and is preferred.  Boost and Qt still need to be built, but all other dependencies are available.

## Download GDAL from gisinternals.com

You can choose the proper architecture (x86 or amd64) and compiler version (MSVC 2008-2013).

1. Download the proper package from [here](http://gisinternals.com/sdk.php).
2. Unzip the package into a known place, such as `C:\src\x64`
3. The zip file will create a folder named `release-1600-x64`.

You might need to edit `release-1600-x64\include\boost\config\auto_link.hpp` to find the correct boost libs. For example, to link to boost built with MSVC 2010, change line 136 to:

`#define BOOST_LIB_TOOLSET "vc100"` 

Your `GIS_INTERNALS_HOME` value will point to `C:\src\x64\release-1600-x64`.

## Build boost

`cd` into `C:\src\x86\src\boost` and run

`bootstrap`

Then, for 32-bit, run

`bjam install --prefix=C:/src/x86 --with-date_time --with-program_options --with-test --type=complete`

For 64-bit, run:

`bjam install --prefix=C:/src/x64 --with-date_time --with-program_options --with-test --type=complete --toolset=msvc-10.0 address-model=64`

## Building Qt

**NOTE**: Building qt-4.8.5 with VS2013 requires the following changes:

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/18080625/qt-4-8-visual-studio-2013-compiling-error

From `C:\src\x86\src\qt-everywhere-opensource-src-4.8.5` run:

`configure -prefix C:\src\x86 -opensource`

`nmake`

`nmake install`

## Build WindNinja

Note: in order to generate a proper NINJA_SCM_VERSION value, git must be installed and GITCOMMAND must be set.

Downloads: https://git-scm.com/downloads

`cd` into `C:\src\windninja\build32` or `\build64` and run:

`cmake-gui ../`

1. Click `Configure`.
2. Check `USE_GIS_INTERNALS`.
3. Click `Configure`.
4. The variable `GIS_INTERNALS_HOME` will appear.  Set it to the value mentioned in the first step.
5. Click `Configure`.  There will still be errors.
6. Add a new entry called `BOOST_ROOT=C:/src/x64` and click `Configure` again.  This should set all the other boost paths correctly.
7. Set the following values:
    - NINJA/NINJA_CLI = checked
    - NINJA/NINJA_QTGUI = checked
    - WITH/WITH_LCP_CLIENT = checked
    - WITH/WITH_NOMADS_SUPPORT = checked
    - Ungrouped Entries/ENABLE_GMTED = checked
    - Ungrouped Entries/FIRELAB_PACKAGE = checked (if building installer)
    - Ungrouped Entries/STABILITY = checked
    - If necessary, set Ungrouped Entries/GITCOMMAND to `C:/Program Files/Git/cmd/git.exe` (default)
    - BUILD/BUILD_FETCH_DEM = checked
    - BUILD/BUILD_TESTING = unchecked
8. Click `Configure`
9. Set `QT_QMAKE_EXECUTABLE` to `C:/src/x64/bin/qmake.exe`
10. Click `Configure`
9. Append `/DNINJA_ENABLE_CALL_HOME` to the `CMAKE/CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS` entry.
10. Click `Configure`
11. Click `Generate`
12. Run `nmake` in the console
13. Optionally run `nmake package`